Title: How to choose from Chinese house and Chinese CNY? Some personal insights on Chinese housing

Main:
The total market capacity of Chinese housing equals 3/4 of the world's total GDP, and presently Chinese housing industry is on the verge of a soft collapse, maybe not extreme at all, but it surely will collapse mildly. Here is the 3/4 equation explanation: Chinese housing total market capacity in CNY * CNYUSD exchange rate = total world GDP in USD * 3/4. It means if someone can find a buyer to sell all the Chinese houses at their market price, he will own 3/4 of all the outputs of the world, including all industrial productions, technology outputs etc. This analogy is to warn China about its bubble in housing. The house is house, built from steel and cement, but the service and products and technologies are not only themselves, they are the furure, and they will appreciate later. Therefore this equation is so absurd that I believe every sane person would believe it should be a 'less than' sign in the middle instead of an 'equal'. 
In order to change the equation, we need to make the left part smaller, which means either we decrease the housing price, or we devaluate CNY, or both (which is not possible because no Chinese leader would do this good-for-no-one move). This was a hit topic in the last few years, which is: should we save CNY or the house? 
These two ways both have records in history. Saving house price and let currency depreciate is the typical Russian mode. In 2017 Putin let Russian currency depreciated 1/4 compared to USD, and another 20% in 2018, but he made the domestic commodities' prices remain stable. This means the russian people did not feel too many changes in their country but for the foreigners they were happy because they needed less to buy things, for example Russian bear-skin bags (kidding). This move made numerous foreign capitalists squeeze into the Russian market and bought many products and assets like lands, companies, technologies etc, and the final result in a word is: domestic assets were given at a discount to foreigners and the underlying living cost of the masses increased.
Another example of saving currency but letting housing price go is Japan. 30 years ago Japanese housing bubble began to burst and the government chose to increase the interest rate to retain the foreign capital, but high interest rate accelerated the housing bubble blast, and people viewed a 63% collapse of the housing price. In this case no foreign capital seized any Japanese assets but it was the Japanese people who seized the common Japnese's assets, having greatly enlarged the wealthy poor gap. The transfer of wealth in Japan made many individuals angry but they had the only choice of accepting the reality.
Therefore we see both cases are not easy and finally there will be someone to take the pain, whether it being the domestic masses or the domestic masses (:)). In 2016 and 2017, Chinese housing price rising speed reached a record high level, and if you sell all the houses in Beijing Shanghai Shenzhen and Guangzhou, you could buy half of USA. At that time, the capital withdraw problem was very serious, but Chinese leaders didn't choose either Russian mode or Japanese mode, they had some novel moves which until today I still cannot judge good or not. On one hand the leaders introduced the strictest ever foreign exchange control regulations, blocking the path of CNY going out, stablizing the CNY rate, and on the other hand they also introduced the strictest ever house buying regulations, almost having freezed the free trades or even any trades on housing market, which now seems to have helped stablize the price. These two methods are very Chinese, in that they don't solve the underlying problem (because the 2 parts in that equation are still not fixed), but only making the bubble burst later. In Chinese we call it 'Changing space for time'. 
In 2020 the total market capacity of Chinese housing has reached 4 times of our total GDP, 74% of total world's GDP, but Chinese GDP only accounts for 16% of the world's. Due to the USD depreciation in the second half of 2020, CNY experienced a great surge by nearly 10%, and the higher the CNY exchange rate, the greater the pressure on housing, and consequently the riskier the housing industry. 
The leaders want CNY not too high but not too low. If it's too high, it will help the bubble to go bigger. Since China adopted the strategy of 'Changing space for time', they want to digest the bubble by improving the economy, to give a soft landing in housing price. In my opinion the final success rate of this strategy will be not high and not too low (as low as 10% is impossible), judging from the Chinese leaders previous moves. This is a very challenging way, if it's a success I bet later economists will call it 'the Chinese method' to cope with similar things in other countries in the future. 
There will definitely be less happiness if one of the two things went wrong, either currency or housing price. If I have to choose one, I would say saving currency. This will shrink my asset but we still have a chance to recover. If the currency lost its reputation, then, BOOM! I bet it takes at least 3 generations of people to recover the economy.
